
                       libping README

WHAT IS IT?
-----------
Libping is a small C library designed to allow a programmer to 
make ICMP_ECHO requests and network services inquiries directly 
from a script or program. The library includes support for pinging 
HTTP/HTTPS, POP3, and SMTP services. The distribution includes 
ring, a script-friendly utility linked to the library and intended 
to be invoked directly from scripts. Unlike most ping utilities, 
libping will timeout on both unreachable hosts and unreachable 
networks. It returns a value every time it is called, a feature 
which makes programming ICMP echo requests simpler and more 
reliable. 


WHERE IS IT?
------------
The latest version of libping can be obtained via anonymous ftp:
ftp://ftp.armstrong.com/pub/libping/libping-latest.tar.gz

Updates, announcements, documentation is available via the web
at http://www.joedog.org

INSTALLATION
------------
libping was built with  GNU autoconf.  If you are familiar with
GNU software, then you should be comfortable installing libping
Please consult the file INSTALL for more details.

DOCUMENTATION
-------------
Documentation is available in man pages pinghost(1) ring(1)
An html manual is available online:
http://www.joedog.org/libping/docs/manual.html

LICENSE
-------
Please consult the file, COPYING for complete license information.

Copyright (C) 2000  Jeffrey Fulmer <jdfulmer@armstrong.com>

Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute verbatim
copies of this document as received, in any medium, provided that
the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved, 
thus giving the recipient permission to redistribute in turn.

Permission is granted to distribute modified versions of this
document, or of portions of it, under the above conditions,
provided also that they carry prominent notices stating who last
changed them.

