.\" Copyright 2001 by Jeffrey Fulmer <jdfulmer@armstrong.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.TH PINGPOP3 3  "July 06, 2001" "" "libping Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B pingpop3, pingtpop3 
\- issue a socket request to a POP3 host.
.br
.B tpingpop3, tpingtpop3 
\- issue a socket request to a POP3 host and return the round trip time
in milliseconds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ping.h>
.sp
.BI "int pingpop3(const char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int pingtpop3(const char *" host ", int t );
.sp
.BI "int tpingpop3(const char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int tpingtpop3(const char *" host ", int t );  
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpingpop3()\fP function issues a socket request to a POP3
host.  It returns 1 if the host replies +OK, 0 if the ping request
times out and less than zero on an networking error (see return
values below.)
.PP
The \fBpingtpop3()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a 
user specified timeout value. The default timeout value used
by pingtpop3() is 10 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the timeout value. (pronounced: ping-tee-pop-three)
.PP
The \fBtpingpop3()\fP function issues a socket request to a POP3
host.  On success, it returns the round trip time in milliseconds.
(pronounced: tee-ping-pop-three)
.PP
The \fBtpingtpop3()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a
user specified timeout value. The default timeout value used
by tpingtpop3() is 10 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the timeout value. 
(pronounced: tee-ping-tee-pop-three)
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBpingpop3()\fP, \fBpingtpop3()\fP, \fBtpingpop3()\fP, and 
\fBtpingtpop3()\fP functions return an integer 
value.\fB
.br
>1 \-\- Round trip time in milliseconds.\fB
.br
 1 \-\- Host is alive.\fB
.br
 0 \-\- Connection timed out.\fB
.br
\-1 \-\- Host or service is unreachable.\fB
.br
\-2 \-\- Socket error.\fB
.br
\-3 \-\- Connection refused.\fB
.br
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ring "(1), "  pinghost "(3), " echohost "(3), " pinghttp "(3), "  pingsmtp "(3)"

