.\" Copyright 2001 by Jeffrey Fulmer <jdfulmer@armstrong.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.TH PINGSMTP 3  "July 06, 2001" "" "libping Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B pingsmtp, pingtsmtp 
\- issue a HELO command to an SMTP host.
.br
.B tpingsmtp, tpingtsmtp
\- issue a HELO command to an SMTP host and return the round trip time in 
milliseconds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ping.h>
.sp
.BI "int pingsmtp(const char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int pingtsmtp(const char *" host ", int t );
.sp
.BI "int tpingsmtp(const char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int tpingtsmtp(const char *" host ", int t ); 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpingsmtp()\fP function issues a HELO dude command to a 
host.  It returns 1 if the host replies 250, 0 if the ping request
times out and less than zero on an networking error (see return
values below.)
.PP
The \fBpingtsmtp()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a 
user specified time out value. The default timeout value used
by pingsmtp() is 10 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the time out value.
.PP
The \fBtpingsmtp()\fP function issues a HELO dude command to a
host. On success, it returns the round trip time in milliseconds.
(pronounced: tee-ping-SMTP)
.PP
The \fBtpingtsmtp()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a
user specified time out value. The default timeout value used
by tpingtsmtp() is 10 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the time out value. 
(pronounced: tee-ping-tee-SMTP)
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBpingsmtp()\fP, \fBpingtsmtp()\fP \fBtpingsmtp()\fP and 
\fBtpingtsmtp()\fP functions return an integer value.\fB
.br
>1 \-\- Round trip time in milliseconds.
.br
 1 \-\- Host is alive.\fB
.br
 0 \-\- Connection timed out.\fB
.br
\-1 \-\- Host or service is unreachable.\fB
.br
\-2 \-\- Socket error.\fB
.br
\-3 \-\- Connection refused.\fB
.br
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ring "(1), "  pinghost "(3), "  echohost "(3), " pinghttp "(3), "  pingpop3 "(3)"

