.\" Copyright 2001 by Jeffrey Fulmer <jdfulmer@armstrong.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.TH PINGHTTP 3  "July 06, 2001" "" "libping Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B pinghttp, pingthttp 
\- issue an HTTP/HTTPS GET request to a host.
.br
.B tpinghttp, tpingthttp
\- issue an HTTP/HTTPS GET request to a host and return the round
trip time in milliseconds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ping.h>
.sp
.BI "int pinghttp( char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int pingthttp( char *" host ", int t );
.sp
.BI "int tpinghttp( char *" host " );
.sp
.BI "int tpingthttp( char *" host ", int t ); 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpinghttp()\fP function issues a HTTP GET request to a
host.  It returns 1 if the host replies 200, 0 if the ping request
times out and less than zero on an error. If a page is unavailable
but the host is up, pinghttp will return -1 since the host did not
return HTTP code 200 (see return values below.)
.PP
The \fBpingthttp()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a 
user specified timeout value. The default timeout value used
by pingthttp() is 5 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the timeout value. (pronounced: ping-tee-host)
.PP
The \fBtpinghttp()\fP function issues a HTTP GET request to a
host. On success, the function returns the round trip time in milliseconds.
(pronounced: tee-ping-http)
.PP
The \fBtpingthttp()\fP function is similar, except it accepts a
user specified time out value. The default timeout value used
by tpingthttp() is 5 seconds. On slower, less reliable networks
you may want to increase the timeout value. 
(pronounced: tee-ping-tee-http)
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBpinghttp()\fP, \fBpingthttp()\fP, \fBtpinghttp()\fP and \fBtpingthttp()\fP 
functions return an integer value.\fB
.br
>1 \-\- Round trip time in milliseconds.\fB
.br
 1 \-\- Host is alive.\fB
.br
 0 \-\- Connection timed out.\fB
.br
\-1 \-\- Host or service is not reachable.\fB
.br
\-2 \-\- Socket error.\fB
.br
\-3 \-\- Connection refused.\fB
.br
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ring "(1), "  pinghost "(3), "  echohost "(3), " pingpop3 "(3), "  pingsmtp "(3)"

